Here are a number of a few machine learning techniques with some use cases,

Further research are  ongoing with regards to Deep learning applications; a few use cases for CNN and RNN have been indicated

 

K-Means Clustering Algorithm

Grouping images into different categories,
Document classification
Target marketing/customer segmentation
Detecting different activity types in motion sensors and monitoring whether tracked data points change between different groups over time.
Segmenting data by purchase history,
classifying persons based on different interests,
Grouping inventories by manufacturing and sales metrics,

Random Forest Algorithm

Finding out whether a loan applicant is low-risk or high-risk,
predicting the failure of mechanical parts in automobile engines and predicting social media share scores and performance scores.
The Random Forest can be used for both classification and regression analysis situations

Decision Tree Algorithm

Increasing customer loyalty
Data exploration, pattern recognition, option pricing in finances and identifying disease and risk trends.
Customer data analysis for marketing

K-Nearest Neighbors Algorithm

The K-Nearest Neighbors Algorithm is a lazy algorithm that takes a non-parametric approach to predictive analysis.
KNN algorithm is used in industrial applications in tasks such as when a user wants to look for similar items in comparison to others.
Used in handwriting detection applications and image/video recognition tasks.
If we have unstructured data or lack of knowledge regarding the distribution data, then the K-Nearest Neighbors Algorithm will come to our rescue.

Logistic Regression

Identifying risk factors for diseases and planning preventive measures
can be used in spam detection to detect whether an email is a spam or not
Classifying words as nouns, pronouns, and verbs
Weather forecasting applications for predicting rainfall and weather conditions
Voting applications to find out whether voters will vote for a particular candidate or not
Can be used to detect credit card fraud
Used by credit card companies to develop models that decide whether a customer will default on their loan EMIs or not.
N/B: used when dependent variable is categorical

Naive Bayes Classifier Algorithm

Classifying web pages, forum posts, blog snippets, and tweets without manually going through them,
Classifies words based on the popular Bayes Theorem of probability and is used in applications related to disease prediction, document classification, spam filters, and sentiment analysis projects.
Ranking pages, indexing relevancy scores and classifying data categorically.
Linear Regression

Sales forecasting, pricing, performance
Risk assessment analysis in insurance domains and financial services
Predicting house prices
N/B: used to find the relationship between dependent variable and independent variable.

 

Support Vector Machine (SVM) Algorithm

Comparing the relative performance of stocks over a period of time. These comparisons are later used to make wiser investment choices.
used in bioinformatics such as protein and cancer classification
Face detection i.e whether an image is a face or non-face
 

DEEP LEARNING ALGORITHMS AND USE CASES

 

Convoluted Neural Network

Image feature classification and video processing tasks.
Disorder classification
Detection of abnormalities and diseases
Lesion or tumour detection and classification
Recurrent Neural Networks

Language processing tasks and text and speech analysis
Financial asset forecasting
